hey this is presto Walker and you're
watching mind your decisions here's a
really fun geometry problem start with
rectangle ABCD that measures 4
centimeters by 16 centimeters we're
going to fold this rectangle over line
em n such that point C goes to point a
the question is what is the area of the
resulting Pentagon a BM and D Prime
I think Himanshu from India for
suggesting this problem it appeared in a
math competition and you had about 1
minute to solve this problem now you
were given four multiple choice answers
but to make things a little more
interesting I'm not going to present
those answers to you so you might take a
little bit longer than a minute to solve
it I certainly did but it's a fun
problem can you figure it out give this
problem a try and when you're ready keep
watching the video for a solution
so I'm gonna present two different ways
to solve this problem I'll first go over
a little bit of a longer way so we'll
start out by folding this rectangle over
line MN let's forget the centimeters and
just focus on the values let's label a n
as X now since the entire side ad is 16
that means nd will be 16 minus X
similarly let's label BM as Y that means
MC will be 16 minus y now when we fold
over this rectangle the distances will
be preserved so let's see what happens
so C prime M will be 16 minus y D prime
n will be 16 minus X and the distance
from A to D Prime will be 4 because
that'll still be the same distance as a
B we can solve for the area of the
Pentagon by solving for the area of
three different triangles we have the
triangle of a D prime n the triangle a
BM and the triangle a MN so let's solve
for each area of each triangle now
triangle ad prime n is a right triangle
so by the Pythagorean theorem we have 4
squared plus the quantity 16 minus x
squared is equal to x squared this can
readily be solved that X is equal to 8
point 5 so let's input that value now
let's solve for the area of triangle ad
prime n this will be 4 times 7.5 divided
by 2 and we get an area of 15 similarly
triangle ABM
is a right triangle by the Pythagorean
theorem we have 4 squared plus y squared
is equal to the quantity 16 minus y
squared and then we get Y is equal to 7
point 5 so it turns out that triangle
ABM is actually congruent to triangle ad
prime n we can use these dimensions to
get its area is also equal to 15 finally
we need the area of triangle a MN well
we know
length is equal to 8.5 and here we have
its height which is equal to 4 so we can
solve for the area of triangle AMN as 8
point 5 times 4 divided by 2 and we get
the result of 17 now we can solve for
the area of the shape by adding up 15 15
and 17 and we get an answer of 47 square
centimeters so that's one way that you
can solve the problem but there's a
slightly shorter way if you think about
it now let's go back to our rectangle
it's area will be 4 times 16 which is 64
square centimeters
now let's label a n is X and endi as 16
minus X so what happens to the area of
this shape when we fold it over well
this new shape is actually going to have
the same area as the original shape
except we lose some area to the
overlapping triangle of a MN so we take
the area of the original shape and
subtract out this lost area to
overlapping area we will get the
resulting area of this Pentagon and once
again the reason is that when we fold
the rectangle the new shape has the same
area as the original shape - the lost
overlapping area of a MN so all we need
to do is calculate the area of a MN we
can do this like before we first solve
for the value of x by the Pythagorean
theorem and then we calculate the area
using one side of 8.5 and the height of
4 so we get that a MN has an area of 17
square centimeters so then the area of
the Pentagon will be 64 minus 17 which
is 47 square centimeters did you figure
it out and which method did you use
thanks for watching these math videos
which can be watched for free on YouTube
inspire and build confidence for people
around the world and they have over a
hundred million views please subscribe
for free to get the news videos and
email me a puzzle or math topic presh
and mind your decisions comm if you so
choose you can check on my merchandise
on teespring
you can check out my books which are
listed in the video description and you
can support me on patreon for exclusive
rewards thanks for watching and thanks
for your support